Moving on from option two
as our starting point,
why are we still
recomputing these indexes?
We don't need to recompute the indexes,
do we?
Because we saved it
with the title element.
Let's get rid of these index UPS.
Now, we don't need the board yell anymore.
It's nice.
Or do we need the road yield?
I love it when I get to delete stuff,
my favorite programming activity.
Does anybody spot
the problem with this code?
What's gonna happen right here?
Actually, I'll be even
more specific about it.
What's gonna happen right here?
>> Someone said strings.
>> Yep, we still have the same problem.
These things are coming out as stings and
we're trying to do numerical
addition with them.
And depending on which numerical
mathematics we do with it,
we might end up getting string
concatenation instead of
incrementation the way that we want.
So quick little fix.
If we can just, Force those to be numbers.
Number is my favorite way to
explicitly cast a string to a number.
Other people like the plus
operator in front of it.
I think that's harder to understand.
Next thing that we want to change,
I know we're kind of going back and
forth on a number of these things.
But that's okay,
we're kind of doing this on purpose.
The next thing that we want to change is,
let's get rid of having this as
a single-dimensional DOMLIST.
And let's make a data structure that
is a two-dimensional JavaScript array,
that is a native JavaScript array
that is going to run much faster.
Because we're still touching the DOM
with every access of that tiles array,
every iteration over the tiles array,
we're still touching the native DOM.
Let's go and just get references to
those DOM elements into a real two
dimensional JavaScript array
that represents our grid.
It represents our chessboard.
It's the data structure that we probably
should have done at the beginning, but
we got away with just using the DOM
as a data structure to start with.
And now we want to create a real data
structure that is a two dimensional array.
Turns out it's not gonna be nearly
as hard as you think it is.
To do that, we're just gonna
construct that two dimensional array,
as we construct the doll.
So I'll make tiles into an array.
I will, For each row,
construct a row array,
we'll call it row tiles here.
I will append into row tiles, a reference
to the div that we just created.
So rowTiles.push(tileEl) I think for
good measure I'll put that at the end,
just so,
it's more obvious where that's happening.
And then, after I've appended,
I don't need to append anything,
because rowTiles is,
it needs to be pushed
into tiles ahead of time.
So, tiles.push rowTiles.
Now I can get rid of this line.
I love deleting things.
There's where we got rid of that
whole query selector all call.
So now we're just pushing into this array,
a set of row arrays and
into those row arrays,
respectively the tile element references.
Can everybody see that the end result
of the draw function is that we
now have a DOM built up of a two
dimensional matrix of DOM elements.
And we separately have a two dimensional
JavaScript array with references to
those DOM elements.
It's kind of like an index,
like we did in the other exercise.
Our JavaScript array is
not holding any new data,
it's just holding references to
the DOM elements that are in the DOM.
So we've constructed ourselves
a nice little fast index to get at
the elements that we want.
Unfortunately, it is gonna temporarily
slightly complicate our loop here.
So we're going to need to do
a two-dimensional loop to be able to go
through them now instead of
a single-dimensional loop.
So our clearing of the highlighted
is now going to be row of tiles and
tile, we'll just call it el of row.
And we'll do the same thing down here with
our FindTile, we need to adjust this.
But here's a bit of a payoff.
I'm more excited about this
payoff than you are but
I like it that this is just now that.
And in fact, you look at that,
and you say, well,
if the only thing that fine tile is
doing is simply accessing that position
in an array, maybe we don't
even need a fine tile function.
JavaScript would do the inlining for
us, but
I would argue that this is just gonna
be clear code to get rid of fine tile.
And unfortunately I'm gonna have to change
those parentheses to square brackets.
I mean take out the parentheses I
should have done let me back this up.
I should have done tiles,
And then I change these,
To square brackets.And
now we can just delete
find tile entirely,
which gives me even more joy.
I can't do comma that way.
That's not JavaScript it should be,
but it's not.
We got to do the two
square brackets thing.
I'm going to regression test
my code to make sure I didn't
make another dumb mistake.
Hey look at that still working.
There are undoubtedly other optimizations
that we could make to this code.
But I got to be honest with you, I'm
getting a little bit tired of trying to
polish what is basically
just an ugly piece of junk.
And at this moment,
I as an algorithmist I'm asking myself,
did some of those early decisions I
make sort of paint me into a corner?
Did they force me down on a road
that I now wish I wasn't down.
And I'm gonna do is, any good
algorithmic should do at some point.
You need to take a step back and
potentially we think the whole problem.
This code roughly l Minus a few
potentially slightly different variable
names, this is option three.
So that's your new starting point for
the final iteration that we're
going to make on this code.
But before we make that iteration on this
code, we've got to go rewire our brains.